Add ConvNet tutorial (#87)
FluxML/fluxml.github.io: tutorials/_posts/2021-02-07-convnet.md

---
title: Simple ConvNet
author: Elliot Saba, Adarsh Kumar, Mike J Innes, Dhairya Gandhi, Sudhanshu Agrawal, Sambit Kumar Dash, fps.io, Carlo Lucibello, Andrew Dinhobl, Liliana Badillo   
layout: blog
tag: Computer vision
---
 
In this tutorial, we build a simple Convolutional Neural Network (ConvNet) to classify the MNIST dataset. This model has a simple architecture with three feature detection layers (Conv -> ReLU -> MaxPool) followed by a final dense layer that classifies MNIST handwritten digits. Note that this model, while simple, should hit around 99% test accuracy after training for approximately 20 epochs.
 
This example writes out the saved model to the file `mnist_conv.bson`. Also, it demonstrates basic model construction, training, saving, conditional early-exit, and learning rate scheduling.
 
To run this example, we need the following packages:
 
```julia
using Flux, Flux.Data.MNIST, Statistics
using Flux: onehotbatch, onecold, logitcrossentropy
using Base.Iterators: partition
using Printf, BSON
using Parameters: @with_kw
using CUDA

> if has_cuda()
>    @info "CUDA is on"
>    CUDA.allowscalar(false)
> end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CUDA.allowscalar(false)
```

```
<br>
 
We set default values for learning rate, batch size, number of epochs, and path for saving the file `mnist_conv.bson`:
 
```julia
@with_kw mutable struct Args
   lr::Float64 = 3e-3
   epochs::Int = 20
   batch_size = 128
   savepath::String = "./"
end
```
<br>
 
To train our model, we need to bundle images together with their labels and group them into mini-batches (makes the training process faster). We define the function `make_minibatch` that takes as inputs the images (`X`) and their labels (`Y`) as well as the indices for the mini-batches (`idx`):
 
```julia
function make_minibatch(X, Y, idxs)
   X_batch = Array{Float32}(undef, size(X[1])..., 1, length(idxs))
   for i in 1:length(idxs)
       X_batch[:, :, :, i] = Float32.(X[idxs[i]])
   end
   Y_batch = onehotbatch(Y[idxs], 0:9)
   return (X_batch, Y_batch)
end
```
<br>

`make_minibatch` takes the following steps:

* Creates the `X_batch` array of size `28x28x1x128` to store the mini-batches. 
* Stores the mini-batches in `X_batch`.
* One hot encodes the labels of the images.
* Stores the labels in `Y_batch`.

 

>  `get_processed_data` loads the train and test data from Flux.Data.MNIST. First, it loads the images and labels of the train data set, and creates an array that contains the indices of the train images that correspond to each mini-batch (of size `args.batch_size`). Then, it calls the `make_minibatch` function to create all of the train mini-batches. Finally, it loads the test images and creates one mini-batch that contains them all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 `get_processed_data` loads the train and test data from `Flux.Data.MNIST`. First, it loads the images and labels of the train data set, and creates an array that contains the indices of the train images that correspond to each mini-batch (of size `args.batch_size`). Then, it calls the `make_minibatch` function to create all of the train mini-batches. Finally, it loads the test images and creates one mini-batch that contains them all.
```

 
```julia
function get_processed_data(args)
   # Load labels and images
   train_labels = MNIST.labels()
   train_imgs = MNIST.images()
   mb_idxs = partition(1:length(train_imgs), args.batch_size)
   train_set = [make_minibatch(train_imgs, train_labels, i) for i in mb_idxs]
  
   # Prepare test set as one giant minibatch:
   test_imgs = MNIST.images(:test)
   test_labels = MNIST.labels(:test)
   test_set = make_minibatch(test_imgs, test_labels, 1:length(test_imgs))
 
   return train_set, test_set
 
end
```
<br>
 
 

> Now, we define the `build_model` function that creates a ConvNet model which is composed of *three* convolution layers (feature detection) and *one* classification layer. The input layer size is `28x28`. Each convolution layer reduces the size of the image by applying the Rectified Linear unit (ReLU) and MaxPool operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we define the `build_model` function that creates a ConvNet model which is composed of *three* convolution layers (feature detection) and *one* classification layer. The input layer size is `28x28`. The images are grayscale, which means there is only *one* channel (compared to 3 for RGB) in every data point. Combined together, the convolutional layer structure would look like `Conv(kernel, input_channels => output_channels, ...)`. Each convolution layer reduces the size of the image by applying the Rectified Linear unit (ReLU) and MaxPool operations.
```

   MaxPool((2,2)),
 
   # Second convolution, operating upon a 14x14 image
   Conv((3, 3), 16=>32, pad=(1,1), relu),
   MaxPool((2,2)),
 
   # Third convolution, operating upon a 7x7 image
   Conv((3, 3), 32=>32, pad=(1,1), relu),
   MaxPool((2,2)),
 
   # Reshape 3d tensor into a 2d one using `Flux.flatten`, at this point it should be (3, 3, 32, N)
   flatten,
   Dense(prod(cnn_output_size), 10))
end
```
<br>

To chain the layers of a model we use the Flux function [Chain](https://fluxml.ai/Flux.jl/stable/models/layers/#Flux.Chain). It enables us to call the layers in sequence on a given input. Also, we use the function [flatten](https://fluxml.ai/Flux.jl/stable/models/layers/#Flux.flatten) to reshape the output image from the last convolution layer. Finally, we call the [Dense](https://fluxml.ai/Flux.jl/stable/models/layers/#Flux.Dense) function to create the classification layer.

 
Before training our model, we need to define a few functions that will be helpful for the process:

* `augment` augments the data by adding gaussian random noise to our image to make it more robust:
 
   ```julia
    augment(x) = x .+ gpu(0.1f0*randn(eltype(x), size(x)))
    ```
<br>
 

> * `paramvec` returns a vector of all parameters used in model:
>  
>    ```julia
>     paramvec(m) = vcat(map(p->reshape(p, :), params(m))...)
>    ```
> <br>
>  
> * `anynan` checks whether any element is NaN or not:
>  
>    ```julia
>      anynan(x) = any(isnan.(x))
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 
* `anynan` checks whether any element of the params is NaN or not:
 
   ```julia
     anynan(x) = any(y -> any(isnan.(y)), x)
   ```
```

   # three iterations of Conv -> ReLU -> MaxPool, followed by a final Dense layer.
   @info("Building model...")
   model = build_model(args)
 
   # Load model and datasets onto GPU, if enabled
   train_set = gpu.(train_set)
   test_set = gpu.(test_set)
   model = gpu(model)
  
   # Make sure our model is nicely precompiled before starting our training loop
   model(train_set[1][1])
 
   # `loss()` calculates the crossentropy loss between our prediction `y_hat`
   # (calculated from `model(x)`) and the ground truth `y`.  We augment the data
   # a bit, adding gaussian random noise to our image to make it more robust.
   function loss(x, y)   
       x̂ = augment(x)
       ŷ = model(x̂)
       return logitcrossentropy(ŷ, y)
   end
  
   # Train our model with the given training set using the ADAM optimizer and
   # printing out performance against the test set as we go.
   opt = ADAM(args.lr)
  
   @info("Beginning training loop...")
   best_acc = 0.0
   last_improvement = 0
   for epoch_idx in 1:args.epochs
       # Train for a single epoch
       Flux.train!(loss, params(model), train_set, opt)
      
       # Terminate on NaN

>        if anynan(paramvec(model))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       if anynan(Flux.params(model))
```
